Add guidelines for contributing to MewBot (#24)
mewbotorg/mewbot: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributuing

Contributions to this project are welcome, whether minor updates to documentation or entirely new features.
This document outlines the technical and procedural requirements for your work to be included.

> All contributions, in any form, must also confirm with the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Reviewer: TODO: Code of Conduct

> All contributions, in any form, must also confirm with the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Reviewer: JOKE: TODO: Code of Resistance. you know, to counteract the conductivity.

Reviewer 2: heh - did get a chuckle out of that one!

> > :warning: This document is a living document, and will adapt based on the project's needs.

Author: Warning is a bit strong here 
```suggestion
> :information_source: This document is a living document, and will adapt based on the project's needs.
```

> If some part of this document creates a hindrance, raise an issue explaining the problem.

## Scope: What Lives in this Repository?

> MewBot's core design includes the tenant of modularity.

Author: This implies we have a design philosophy with tenants. We sort of do in the design docs, but it might be cool to codify that some more

> The core repo will only accept features and components that do not add additional dependencies.

Reviewer 2: I mean, once we stabilise what the requirements actually are ...

Definitely aiohttp. Probably some kind of file handling library. Perhaps a decent async database framework for the object stores?

Reviewer: I could also see a world where we do accept additional dependencies for isolated cases.

Author: I have reworded this section to be positively worded -- it now explains what is part of the core functionality, and that adding third party dependencies requires extra consideration.

Reviewer 2: I agree with the rewording - both the sentiment and the specific language used.

In practise, I think we're going to struggle with this - especially as we add more io options. If we can keep it down to less than 1 per io type, I'll be personally happy. But there's every reason to have this language in the guide as a target.

This is partially resolvable by a more sophisticated build/install system.

When building new components, whether they are input/output modules or utilities for use in behaviours,
consider if they could be a stand-alone repository and package.

> The MewBot team is happy to help set up these repositories in the GitHub group.

Author: For now, this should be commented out -- we can deal with splitting up the repo once #13 is solved

## Projects and Issues: What Needs Doing?

Issues are a fantastic way of keeping track of what work is needed and who is planning to do it.
You can find all the current initiatives in the projects tab; these show the current areas of focus.

> If you are looking for a way to contribute to the project, this is a great place to start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are looking for a way to contribute to mewbot, this is a great place to start.
```
(Grammar: changing multiple uses of the word "project" in "github projects" and "the mewbot project"

Issues are also a place to plan how to approach future work.
Openly discussing ideas allows us to find places where multiple people are looking at

> similar problems and ensure that we don't have different solutions.

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding something on the lines of "Don't be shy in adding issues. All concerns, or thoughts, are wlecome. But please don't be offended if issues get merged as we work towards a solution - which may solve several of them at once."

Reviewer 2: Or something on these lines more grammerly acceptable? As opening an issue can be fairly intimidating. I'm thinking of the eventual target audience - who, hopefully, will include quite a lot of low or no code individuals.

Reviewer 2: The rewording is much better!

> similar problems and ensure that we don't have different solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
similar problems and ensure that we don't have different solutions.
Don't be shy in adding issues. All concerns, thoughts or suggestions are welcome. The team may
merge issues as we work towards a common solution, or issues will be dropped if they do not
reflect the overall project vision.
```
Would be my suggestion

> When starting on a piece of work, check if there is a current issue you can assign to yourself.

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding "please"

Reviewer 2: But yeah - minor style thing

Author: Entirely reworded to a more positive:
> If you want to start on a piece of work: find or create an issue describing the work; assign it to yourself; and get started.

For more extensive changes, it is encouraged that you create it if one does not already exist.
If another user has the issue assigned, coordinate your work with them.

## Code Style

Coding tackles the thorny problem of trying to express logical, computational concepts in a
human-readable and understandable manner. Our code style favours the human side.
We seek to find the balance between sections of code that are too large or dense to
comprehend and the problem of too many small pieces of code to understand at once.

Formatting is derived from Python's [PEP8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) as implemented by
[Black](https://pypi.org/project/black/), with line lengths limited to 100 (instead of the traditional 80).

The linting toolchain uses
[Black](https://pypi.org/project/black/),
[Flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/),
[mypy](http://www.mypy-lang.org/), and
[pylint](https://pylint.pycqa.org/en/latest/)
to promote best practices for expressing the logical constructs.

Expressing intent is the other key ingredient.
Name code elements (classes, functions, variables) based on what purpose they serve,
and try to organise code to convey the flow of logic.

> If there is additional information, use single-line comments.

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding - just as a thought - and very happy to be argued off it. "More is better here in terms of clarity and content. If individual sections of code are becoming unwieldy then extensive comments may be moved into the wiki. If you do this, please include a link to the wiki page section where the comments now reside. Notes as to intent are also welcome."

Reviewer 2: Ah - see the section below partially deals with it.

Reviewer: Would also reccomend adding "Notes to intent should be removed prior to merge, or with a suitable issue raised as part of the pull request process"

Reviewer 2: That's probably a better solution - that way people can go back and see the notes before the final pruning in the commits that made up the branch? Which is definitely more elegant than leaving them in the final code base.

We could even include links on the relevant wiki page to the last commit containing them.

Reviewer 2: (Possidbly adding something about how 

"Extensive comments, or comments which should be read prior to working on the component, should be transfered into the wiki and a link to the relevant page included in the code")

Reviewer 2: (But I am far from fixed on this, and the tone/content of the wiki is a discussion for another point.

Long quite liked the idea of a contributor wiki, where people can dump any notes they make during dev. Will add an issue).

The "doc-block" at the top of class and functions should start with a quick summary of the purpose and intent.
This summary can be followed by any relevant commentary on the implementation,
such as links to decisions about the structure of the code and notes features that might not be obvious.

The use of comments to note problems or future fixes is discouraged, and merges containing them will not be approved.
Instead, create an issue to track the required change.

<!--
## Testing
This section is to be drafted by whoever solves the issue relating to testing.

-->

> ## Branches And Commits

Reviewer: Should we invent an image here? Something like:
```
----------------------------------
o (v1.0) - -  o - - - - - - - o (v1.1) (mainline)
 \           /               /
   o - - - o - - - o - - - o               (<issue branch names>)
--------------------------------
```

The primary branch of this project is called 'mainline'.
It represents the total summation of approved code changes.
The tip of this branch will pass all linting and test stages.
Tested stable versions are marked with git tags; there is no 'stable' branch.

The mainline branch uses a 'semi-linear' branch history, with merge commits only being
used to indicate the start and end of each applied topic branch.
Rebasing code in topic branches is encouraged.

Each commit in the repo should represent a logical, testable change.
Ideally, they should also pass all linting and testing checks.
When a branch is in active development, this does not need to be strictly adhered to,
and you may wish to hold off on deciding on the commit order until the merge request.

Commit messages, like code elements, starts with a summary of the intent of the change,
and the full version can also include references to the issue(s) it solves and descriptions
of the functional details of the changes.

> 

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding.

"Before you start work on a new feature, please check the issues to reduce the chance of duplication of work. Before you start a new project, please open an issue describing your intent."

Think it bears repeating.

Author: I've added it to the top of the review section instead, but yes more repeating

> ## Pull Requests: Getting Stuff Into The Project

Reviewer: Do we have enforced merge requirements to prevent errant pull requests being solved by non-maintainers/when all reviewers have not say "yay"

Author: Yes; code review requirements are currently:
 - one maintainer approval
 - conversations in the merge resolved (which doesn't mean much because anyone can resolve conversations, iirc)
 - linting and sonar passing

GitHub also notifies the maintainers of all new pull requests.

Pull requests are where this policy primarily gets enforced.
The pull request template will outline the steps.
The reviewers and maintainers will work with you to ensure that your code and commit history are correct and concise.

## Reviewing Merge Requests: How to Give and Interpret Feedback

Reviews on merge requests should be submitted using GitHub's review feature.
Comments generally fall into four categories, but GitHub gives us no way to distinguish between them:
 - Praise: "This is good."
 - Question for the Author: "will this work if [condition]?"
 - Alternative method: "this might be better as a [lanugage feature]."
 - Actual problem: "Because of [x], this change won't work for cute cats."

All four of these are suitable forms of feedback.
This list is not exhaustive but forms a good framework for communicating what you expect the requester to do.
When giving feedback of alternative methods or problems, include a clear description and example (pseudo)code or a link to documentation.

It is up to the reviewer (or a maintainer) to mark a conversation as resolved, not the merge requester.

> An exception naturally applies to praise and other comments that do not need a response.

Reviewer 2: Overall well written and clear.

Reviewer: Praise: I do like this idea of marking your comments on what we should say.
Potential Optional Addition: do we want to mandate a list/mandate having these tone markers

Author: I don't think they _need_ tone markers, per se -- I'm hoping that just having the idea of thesallows for clearer communication (both in the form of people writing comments with language that makes it clearer, and also giving people a way to ask "is this a problem that has to be dealt with?" in a slightly more polite manner
